[Music]
hi K good to see you hello
Joe so what what do you want to do what
do you want to do a coaching session on
today I
um you know we've talked a lot about um
my relationship with money I think
that's one
one TR one difficult part in my life I'd
say that's one another one that I've
realized recently is um just kind of
this ongoing need for
validation and I think it's kind of I I
I look at my career where I chased money
and status for a while and kind of
achieved some of those and then kind of
very quietly said well I don't care
about those things but instead I want
likes and attention and notoriety and
people to talk about me and so I wonder
you know there's definitely a grasping
and a clinging there so that would be
kind of another another they're probably
related but that would be another
interest yeah awesome
so let's see here uh and just what
what's the relationship with money now
what how would you describe it and
what's what's what what's the thing that
doesn't feel aligned about
it I think
that intellectually I
don't you know but I don't not
intellectually I'm fine with the amount
of money that I have if I just show up
Do My Thing invest semi
normally right yeah will be tell tell me
about the tell me about what's the
emotional component the well the
emotional component is that um there's
still some kind of scorecard that I keep
in my head and it kind of selfworth kind
of Awesome Ates with that uh you know
like the Market's been up a few days I'm
like ah just like feel a little bit
better about
everything yeah yeah and but it's really
that kind of scoreboarding it's kind of
like I'm
always looking at other people and it's
like oh I'm there's like there's this
feeling where I'm like oh I'm better
because I have more financial success
yeah but I also know intellectually that
it's a
I will lose that game like in the long
run and it's very
unsatis feels
problematic great okay so
uh what if there was no
scorecard you just literally couldn't
believe in a
scorecard every scorecard you were just
like it's not it's not at all accurately
assessing in your in your heart in your
body if there's no scorecard what would
what would you have to sit with I think
I'd be
lost yeah I think yeah I would be I'd be
rudderless
yeah that's great how does it feel to be
rudderless it's funny you like uh as you
said that is like this you know like
when you drop on a roller coaster and
your your stomach catches up with you on
the drop that's like that's what I felt
in that in that
moment um how is that feeling different
than
Freedom how do it do I mean that that
feeling is it's almost it's a derivative
of getting punched in the
gut so let's say you jump off of you
bungee jump off of a bridge and you have
that exhilaration of like oh I'm flying
how is it
different
it's it's only the scary part of it not
the accelerating part of it okay so it's
kind of the is the bunge
gonna is the bunge gonna hold or
my let's say that let's say you actually
find out with 100% certainty that there
is no
scorecard there's
no there's no way of describing your
worth
accurately
it's
it's it feels very it's it's scary
because I feel like I don't know myself
in that world
yeah right there's this thing that they
do now called like a Darkness thing have
you heard about this where you basically
like go into so you put a mask on and
then you get put into a cave and you're
like just in the cave it's pretty
luxurious but like you're in on a with a
mask in a dark cave you can't see
anything for like days on
end and I'm just gonna ask you to
imagine that that is your life
forever how what would be the
scorecard you still
exist as much you're in this
cave and and you can't see right can't
see it's all it's dark the weather the
temperature is the same there's no
outside
interaction yeah all that's happening is
what's happening inside of you you have
all your needs
met what's what's the
scorecard
survival yeah you got food comfortable
bed five star hotel it's just no
interaction like a like there's you know
like literally what's around the corner
because what's lurking behind the corner
all right that's great awesome so if
you're
enough what does that do to change your
capacity to what's lurking behind the
corner
if you're enough if you're validated if
you have enough check marks likes
dollars in the bank account
women whatever friends loved ones
whatever acolytes if you have enough of
those how does that help you deal with
what's around the
corner
in I think I in that that situation it's
as if it doesn't it doesn't seem like it
matters because it it really
does like you know nothing's going to I
I really feel like my survival is at
risk even though you know it's a Four
Seasons yeah that you've described and
so it's almost like no one cares like
whatever threat is lurking around the
corner no one cares about your SAT score
right or your uh your business card so
so so it doesn't matter what
specifically is trying to
survive I think
that like my my body right like my
physical
body I think it's I know if you knew you
you're physically being safe What would
then if you had 100% transparency and
Clarity that you were going to be
physically safe for the next 30 Years
yeah yeah we're all going to die like
the only thing that's actually certain
is that you're not physically safe but
let's just assume that 30 days 30 years
you're physically safe yep what's what's
what's scared what's left to be scared
of in this dark
room uh
loneliness and what dies in the
loneliness
what dies what dies if you have no
scorecard I think
um I when you ask it that way it's
almost like the scorec
card
ensures like human
connection right like it lets people
people
see that I'm I'm here I'm right I'm here
I'm good
I'm I'm alive right um it's
like
a you know it's like like kind of like
um waving a sign at a protest right it's
like I'm here like look at me pay
attention to me right yeah the thing
that's interesting about yours the
scorecards you choose they can be taken
away from
you yeah they're not completely within
your
control yeah what's what what would be
the internal scorecard that says I'm
good I'm
valid that can't be taken away from
you I think that
um they can't
is my my ability to love
others uh that can't be taken away it
also can't be measured
um yeah it can't be measured accurately
but yeah there's a definitely a
different sensation in one's body if you
have a capacity to
love or if you have more or less of a
capacity to
love yeah
absolutely um what can't be taken away
ability that you can measure that like
that says hey I'm good I'm
valuable so right now now you're
entering into this kind of
spacious is what it looks like to me
yeah so from that place can you
describe the bank account don't go into
your intellect just in that space just
like that
recognition of the truth of who you are
that creates a lot of Silence in your
system from that perspective what what
does that what does that see or know
about your bank
account
um feels
very it's doesn't matter or it's a
disconnected
unconnected um I think there's a part
that wants
to wants to grasp but I'm kind of
not I'm not feeling the urge to grasp
you know I think my intellect saying
grab for it grab it grab it but it's
right it's not really
appealing
yeah I think that just just to remind
ourselves just go back to
that question of what is the scorecard
that can't be taken away from
you the internal
one
there's still something about safety
coming
up
yeah it's not this experience is not
safe no no right it's going to be gone
so therefore it's
fleeting the thing that's observing this
experience is going to be
gone your body is going to be gone
there's nothing safe
about
this it just admits
it yeah the bank account doesn't admit
it I feel like the first thing that
comes up is is what can I do in this
moment what can I think about what can I
say to feel safe
that's
yeah and and does that put points on the
board or take them away from the
internal
scorecard
I I I think
it's like pay attention to the internal
scorecard it's not an intellect ual
thing it's just you
know and if you have the
thought what do I have to do to be
safe and let's do a Ab test against the
thought process of oh I'm never
safe which one puts points on the
board or I've been doing stuff to be
safe in the moment
not the future in the moment I I'm not
saying that that's not right I'm just
saying like in this
moment if you go oh I have to do
something to be safe does that take you
away does it bring you closer does it
put the points on the board does it take
them away in the
moment the
moment the moment it I
don't doesn't feel feel
necessary
yeah does it make you feel safer to have
the thought in the
moment what do I have to do to be say
again I was asking which thought what do
I have to do to be
safe or what can I do to be safer
does that increase the sensation of
safety in the moment or decrease
it decrease or no change but not
increase not
increase what do you suspect your life
would look like if all you did did was
just pay attention to this scorecard
instead of the likes instead of the bank
account instead of
the kicking ass in surfing whatever it
is um dad's
approval think the first word that comes
to mind is like Meandering or wayward H
right it's that loss feeling because you
don't have a scorecard kind of thing
yeah it's like the scorecard is the map
so to
speak yeah um but but also there's like
a there's a there's a glimpse into
Freedom right
yeah but it's just it's just a glimpse
it's not right yeah it's not as
full-throated
what what if this is a
compass and all it can do is just point
where North
is or point in the direction you're
supposed to go but it's there's no
[Music]
map
I I mean I I trust
it not fully but I'm willing
to I'm willing to to
I'm willing to play yeah
well so the you you you followed the
first map which was money it didn't get
you where you wanted to
go you're following the second map which
is likes which clearly isn't getting you
where you want to go or we wouldn't be
talking about
it where do you want to
go
it's hard it's hard to describe with
words
because I don't think it's
a I don't think it's a thing yeah right
I don't think it's a
container uh and and this this Compass
that's like there when you pay attention
to the internal
scorecard how far away are you from the
thing you want to be
internal
score can you say that again please
yeah I'm gonna do it in steps so the
question is what's the what's the
scorecard that can't be taken away from
you and you and it and it looked like we
were kind of thinking that it's like a
compass it's like you just know what's
true for you like what brings you closer
to yourself or further away from
yourself it's a a piece of
sorts
yeah so go there pay attention to that
Compass or scorecard or whatever you
want to call
it and how close is that to the place
you want the map to take
you
I can't tell if it's this is just the
place it
is the
place meaning there is nowhere to
go
or the place
will
by just trusting it or or listening to
it it will get me to where it will get
me to the place if that makes sense yeah
so like if is it is it just this way of
existing or is it this way of existing
being that eventually
reveals what the you know like the the
ultimate
destination what makes that a dichotomy
and instead of a both and like what
you're there in there there's an
assumption of a dichotomy what makes you
assume a
dichotomy I think that there is some
element
of
not not
moving
is I guess the F the first thing was
like not moving is is
bad right and
so so
the so being so the dichotomy is
that that being
and just being with with that internal
Compass
[Music]
is insufficient in if it doesn't
actually move you to some other place ah
yeah what's the part of you that's NE
what's the part of you that's never been
I don't need an answer as much as like
can you how do you get in touch with the
part of you you right now that has never
been
moved that has never been touched that
has never been affected that is or the
part of you that's always been there the
same way
since the beginning till
now do you mean to kind of connect with
that part yeah
and now tell it that it has to move and
I want to hear what its response
is you have to move to be valuable you
have to get somewhere to be
valuable
it say it out loud if you would be so
kind
yeah it's it's
[Music]
saying it's
basically kind of scared of the
authority figure the the person giving
the order saying like where do you want
me to go just tell
[Music]
me it almost like it it has no agency
that when it's just waiting to be told
and scared I mean fear comes up often
yeah when you were a
kid how often did the rules of the game
change
the game of getting attention and
approval which is what every kid does
you can open your eyes if you want how
often how often did the rules of the
game
change I feel like with my parents it
was very transparent in that they were
pretty consistent
about what the rules were I think that
when you did it did you get the
reward there was not a fa there there
was there weren't a lot of adab boys in
uh growing
up so the gold post constantly moved
there's no winning where like how did
you win tell me about one time that you
won with your parents where you felt
like I [__] won I got it done I think
when they caved and bought me a
Nintendo when you got them to do what
you wanted them to do yeah or oftentimes
it was like buy me what I wanted them to
buy I think that
that that was very
much uh the the the conflict is I want I
want
this and it's like well do well in
school and then you can have all the X
all the Nintendos you want in the world
right so I never thought of it as
goalpost moving but I guess that's like
the ultimate
example yeah right it makes sense why
you chased money
first winning was when you got what you
wanted
financially and that feels very very
Salient I I I basically
remember my my parents saying no to
anything that I ever
wanted like physic physical non-s
survival needs toys clothes games comic
books that stuff yeah and I remember a
fierce determination it was like no
one's ever gonna tell me what I cannot
and cannot
have yeah I was like I start making
money when I was 13 years old yeah um
how
about just say this sentence out loud
for me which is nobody's can ever tell
me that I can or cannot have safety
nobody oh and add safety to
it um nobody's ever going to tell me
that I can or cannot have
safety what happens in your system when
you say
that a little bit of that bunge jumping
plunge what made
the what made the what made it so clear
in your system about the money but not
so clear your system about the
safety
I I never I rarely felt
safe as a kid and that was because I had
to walk to and from school by
myself
and like you could get jum and I got
jumped a handful of times yeah me
too so I
never I hated
walking less walking to school because
everyone walks at the same time but it
was walking home from school when
everyone was walking home at a different
time yeah
and yeah I hated that feeling right but
what you weren't doing was taking MMA
classes at 13 you were earning money at
yeah what what was the what created the
determination around the money and not
the safety because you meet people who
are just like yeah I'm not going to feel
unsafe and
they learn how to kick ass
yeah I think part of it is probably
cultural where you know being of Asian
descent my parents are very
non-confrontational very kind of scared
of authority
figures so the difference sounds like
tell me how off I am here the difference
was your your
parents were taught you and were
confident in the fact that you could do
what you needed to do to be able to buy
any Nintendo you ever wanted but they
were not confident in the fact that you
could be
safe safety was not something that they
saw was a possibility for
you I think yeah I
mean there was
zero zero talk ever in our family about
self-defense fighting fighting
back I mean he safety even in a broader
sense did did how much did your parents
conceive the idea that they could be
safe as a real
possibility I don't think they'll ever
truly believe that
yeah I know my dad for
sure yeah and how much did they did they
believe that they could be well
off that they could have Financial
Security by than
Nintendos yeah
I definitely more than safety
yeah I remember my dad's my dad you know
like many parents have this aphorism
that sticks with you forever and so my
my dad's for us was we may not be the
smartest but we're the hardest working
right like you you kind of got me you
you nailed me pretty well with that one
Dad yeah
okay so where do you go when you get to
the top of the
mountain where does the map take
you I
[Music]
mean it's so often looks for another
Mountain to
scale right I
think I don't know if you're priming me
here but I do feel like there's
something
about kind of Idol illness
being like it makes you a Target right
like a Sitting Duck of
sorts so um the these scorecards the
money the the likes whatever the
scorecard is the
um what happens when you get
there like when you get to the top of
that
mountain where do you go what like you
talked about like a wayward feeling like
yeah I think you I think I
feel
un well there's uh you're kind of hit
with this kind of wave of
dissatisfaction in the in the sense
of like that's it this is the thing you
know like kind of the classic yeah
hedonic treadmill type stuff but like
wow that's
that's it I have a question for you so
that sensation of like I'm there like
I'm at the top of the mountain yeah or
that moment where you went internal and
you saw the scorecard the internal
scorecard that could be taken
away see see what it's like take a
moment to feel internally um there's no
place for me to
go and I'm
lost like put those two together you
felt it earlier in this session but put
those together for a second I have I
have no idea where to go and I'm
lost and
now put together I have no idea where to
go and I'm not lost I know exactly where
I
am
the first thing that like popped up
really loud was the word
trust it's almost like in giant letters
it's
like there is this it's like do I
trust it's like do I trust myself
right do I yeah
[Music]
and when I'm on top of the mountain I
you know for some reason when you asked
that I was kind of I was on top of the
Wall Street Mountain that's where I was
visualizing myself yeah and I definitely
did
not
trust anything
about the situation other than my
ability to make more money
right
yeah so what if that's the scorecard
how much you trust
yourself that was like both deflating
and inspiring at the same
time what did it
deflate it's so much easier to trust
than a
scorecard yeah you know the works you
know it the works done for you is is
what it's yeah it's
it's trust
that yeah I I don't I'm not sure I trust
myself what if that's a
scorecard you put score you put points
on the board the more you trust
yourself points lead your bank account
is self
trust what if that's the or your likes
are self
trust I mean feels pretty [__]
awesome which is weird
because I always trusted
myself when there was a score you it's
like if give me a scorecard I'm gonna
find a way to rack up points on it great
so there's tremendous amount of trust
there yeah but when you remove that I'm
like oh wait it's like like all these
conflict it's like you trust yourself
but you know it's there's all these
that's why I was like deflating and
inflating yeah
simultaneously
yeah what if trusting
yourself that's one of
those moments that I won't be able to uh
UNH here in a good way
yeah there's one other just piece that I
want to speak to about it which is
um
like um a tree doesn't have a
goal but it keeps on evolving
like the idea that you could stop
evolving
is like the only way you could stop
evolving is by
[Music]
dying like there's this fear that like
oh I don't I won't I won't keep on going
if I trust myself or if I listen to that
internal scorecard or whatever is
there's that idea as if like your strain
is
required to
evolve like you you did the most
evolution in your life from zero to
eight years
old and you weren't consciously trying
to get some
place you probably did your least
evolving in Wall Street between 28 and
38 years old than you were striving the
whole time
they're they're not correlated is what
I'm saying
they're sometimes correlated sometimes
not you mean what do you think what do
you think happens to your Evolution if
your scorecard is trusting
yourself the more you trust yourself and
you get really good at it you do the
same thing you did with the money the
same thing that you did with the likes
and you just like your scorecard was how
much you can
trust your authentic self yeah what do
you think happens to your
Evolution the first thing I thought is
it feels like being on
drugs in a good way yeah yeah yeah yeah
I know
yeah
um it is
it's almost like the um you know like
the race horses with the with the
blinders yes just kind of like you just
you could move them five degrees wider
and completely change the aperture of of
site that's what it feels like that's
what it feels like it
feels it feels really
exciting
awesome thanks for a great session that
was really fun can I ask one question
yeah of course yeah yeah I'm scared that
see here it comes I feel like when
I you know where I'm like deeply present
and following
your smooth radio
voice and
uh it's like I'm going to get you know
I'm going to go and get back on like log
into whatever I log into and then you
know this will be really Salient you
know for a couple days and then it will
start to fade a bit and then in two
weeks three weeks will be a distant
memory do you know any score do you know
any scorecard that doesn't work that
way es and flows of the market you
forget it you obsess over it for a while
H is there how does
one I mean the F the thing that came to
mind
is how did you do it with money is a
mantra which would be you know how did
you do it with
money how did you remind yourself
religiously to make
money
just by
breathing
right yeah I mean it's it's what do you
think would have happened if you would
have asked me how do I remember how do I
keep on remembering that I need to make
money on Wall Street like how do you
what do you think how successful would
you have
been yeah it's just the it's the it's
the water you swim in right the oxygen
you breathe
yeah tell me the imprint of money is
like 44 years and the imprint of trust
is one one hour let's see if that's
let's see if that's true so we have this
metric that we just found out which is
like
trust po points on the board are how
well am I how am I trusting myself
that's how we score it how long now that
we have that scorecard can you look back
and tell me how long you've been
playing that
game
yeah if I asked your wife how long has
Kay
been working on trusting himself what
would her answer
be something like he's he always
has yeah or like she might even be more
extreme it's like you know it's just a
part of who he is yeah it was funny how
I qualified that right it's like she
might yeah right so we're just looking
we're just looking at an orientation to
a to a movement that you have in you
[Music]
naturally beautiful and and that's part
of the thing is that that fear distracts
you from trusting yourself like in this
moment there was like putting points on
the board of trusting
yourself is like oh I trust that I will
will be focused on this I I trust that
this landed I trust
that and then this is you know this is
the and of course it's going to e and
flow and of course you're going to go
through moments of non-trust and
trust but you crush every game that you
have
played so and you've been playing this
game for a while now we just learned a
new move and a and a cool met
[Music]
trick thank you what a pleasure you're
welcome pleasure awesome
[Music]
man